h1. VALIDATIOUS-ON-RAILS

_Rails plugin that maps model validations to class names on form elements to integrate with *Validatious*._

h2. What Is Validatious?

*Elevator pitch:* A (kick-ass) unobtrusive client-side validation javascript library - the only one you'll ever need.

"http://validatious.org":http://validatious.org

h2. ...So What Is Validatious-On-Rails?

*Elevator pitch:* A (kick-ass) seamless "glue" between ActiveRecord and Validatious: Automatically maps models validations to client-side Validatious-validators - and when client-side won't work: Validatious-backed AJAX validators - on form elements in a obtrusive way using DOM classes. Makes your form-filling users happier, and you code cleaner and more scalable (tjing-tjing!). Why define client-side validations "once-again", when they already defined in the model?

h2. Features & Goals

h3. Current Features:

* Rails core validations
** Client-side
*** @validates_acceptance_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_confirmation_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_exclusion_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_format_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_inclusion_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_length_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_numericality_of@ - <small>except: :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_presence_of@ - <small>except :on, :if/:unless</small>
*** @validates_size_of@ - <small>except :on, :if/:unless</small>
** Remote (AJAX)
*** @validates_uniqueness_of@ *new*
* Client-side & remote (AJAX) validations hand-in-hand: You won't notice, it's all taken care of seamlessly. When it works client-side; that is used. When more complex stuff is happening; an AJAX request is performed under the hood.
* Supports all Rails core form field helpers.
* Remote validators (AJAX) use Rails core validations, so the API for additional validations is very clean - seamless actually.
* Seamless Rails I18n integration (validation error messages).
* Generator for getting started - easy as 1-2-3 (see below).
* Custom client-side and AJAX validators API (announced soon, not documented yet).
* Client-side validations can easily be disabled for specific fields.
* Ruby 1.9.x support (note: Rails 2.3.4 + Ruby 1.9.1 + validatious-on-rails don't work - because of a known Rails 2.3.4-bug)
* JavaScript framework agnostic.
* Test-suit.
* Bonus: For "Formtastic":http://github.com/justinfrench/formtastic form-builder users like me: With default config, it's compatible with the Formtastic semantic HTML structure.

_*Note:* This project is under heavy development; a lot of experimenting going on - things might change under the hood. See the "TODO":http://github.com/grimen/validatious-on-rails/blob/master/TODO for more info. Please help out file any issues/problems._

h3. Goals:

* Should support all Rails core validations (using preferably *client-side* validation, or last-resort solution using *server-side* validation - backed by Validatious)
* Should be very easy to extend with custom validations (plugins, e.g. @Validatious::Validators.add MyCustomValidator@), but within the domain of *Validatious* (focus) - no vision of support multiple libraries (only makes the code base unnecessary big and complex)
* Support all Rails core form helpers, but should also be easy to extend with custom form field helpers.
* Should not only perform the validations, but also respect the Rails validation options
* Should integrate with the Rails I18n API seamlessly
* Should have solid test suit

_*Note:* Somethings fundamental is missing? Let me know! =)_

h2. Installation

*Gem:*

<pre>sudo gem install validatious-on-rails --source http://gemcutter.org</pre>

and in @config/environment.rb@:

<pre>config.gem 'validatious-on-rails', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'</pre>

*Plugin:*

<pre>./script/plugin install git://github.com/grimen/validatious-on-rails.git</pre>

*Dependencies:*

* "validatious 2.0":http://github.com/cjohansen/validatious
* "validation_reflection":http://github.com/redinger/validation_reflection
* "XMLHttpRequest":http://code.google.com/p/xmlhttprequest/ - unobtrusive cross-browser implementation of the native XMLHttpRequest (remote validations only, not required for client-side validations).

*Note:* For testing, get: "context":http://github.com/jeremymcanally/context, "rr":http://github.com/btakita/rr, "acts_as_fu":http://github.com/nakajima/acts_as_fu, and "redgreen":http://gemcutter.org/gems/redgreen.

h2. Configuration

h3. 1. Generate required javascript files

<pre>
$ ./script/generate validatious
      create  config/initializers/validatious-on-rails.rb
      create  public/javascripts/XMLHttpRequest.js
      create  public/javascripts/v2.standalone.full.min.js
      create  public/javascripts/v2.config.js
      create  public/javascripts/v2.rails.js
</pre>

h3. 2. Include the javascripts in your layout

@app/views/application.html.erb@ or similar:

<pre>
<head>
  ...
  <%= javascript_include_tag 'XMLHttpRequest' ,'v2.standalone.full.min', 'v2.config', 'v2.rails' %>
  <%= javascript_for_validatious %>
  ...
</head>
</pre>

*Notes:*

# @validatious.config.js@ is optional, but contains some default Valdiatious-configuration that easily can be tweaked or extended - see "Validatious documentation":http://validatious.org/learn.
# FYI, this is where custom validations gets inserted. No worries; the plugin is doing the magic!

h2. Usage

*Easy!*

Consider you got some model validations:

<pre>
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates_presence_of :title
  validates_uniqueness_of :title
  validates_length_of :title, :within => 3..20
  validates_length_of :body, :within => 3..20, :client_side => false
end
</pre>

...then you now got working client-side validations for any forms with class @validate@ (or any custom class - see documentation/config):

<pre>
<% form_for(@post, :html => {:class => 'validate'}) do |f| %>
  <%= f.text_field :title %>
<% end %>
</pre>

h2. Validatious ♥ Formtastic

For all you "Formtastic":http://github.com/justinfrench/formtastic users out there: This plugin is out-of-the-box compatible with Formtastic - unlike the similar solution(s) out there. But to get Validatious and Formtastic to play well with each other, you need to tweak the *configuration* settings a bit. These settings are very much recommended:

*Formtastic:*

<pre>
Formtastic::SemanticFormBuilder.inline_errors = :list
Formtastic::SemanticFormBuilder.inline_order  = [:input, :hints, :errors]
</pre>

*Validatious:*

<pre>
v2.Field.prototype.positionErrorsAbove = false;
v2.Fieldset.prototype.positionErrorsAbove = false;
v2.Fieldset.prototype.messagesClass = 'errors';
v2.Fieldset.prototype.failureClass = 'error';
v2.Fieldset.prototype.successClass = '';
v2.Field.prototype.messagesClass = 'errors';
v2.Field.prototype.failureClass = 'error';
v2.Field.prototype.successClass = '';
</pre>

h2. Limitations

This is very much work-in-progress, so there are some known limitations that should work very soon. See "TODO":http://github.com/grimen/validatious-on-rails/blob/master/TODO.

h2. Origin

This project was originally forked from:

"http://github.com/cjohansen/validatious-on-rails":http://github.com/cjohansen/validatious-on-rails

h2. License

*Original work:*

Released under the MIT license.<br />
Copyright (c) 2008 "Christian Johansen":http://github.com/cjohansen

*Additional work:*

Released under the MIT license.<br />
Copyright (c) 2009 "Jonas Grimfelt":http://github.com/grimen
